%{
  name: "Upgrades on ://assemble.press",
  composer: "Calli",
  labels: ~w( deploy elixir phoenix pages process ),
  summary: "Gradually making pages more appealing.",
}
---

Aside from a commission going on at a snail's pace,
I had a long break from producing code -
so I'm pleased to be back on the keyboard.

This prior month or so, I changed my primary coding machine from Fedora to [NixOS],
a much more reliable and reproducible base that has room to expand as I learn more.
I had some good help from the group of Nix users at [HacDC] here in the area as I learned.

During my break, I began playing the musical keyboard again,
and made some good progress in learning the harmonics and scales of the black keys.
The immediate response of the machine to my key presses is inspiring,
and helped me gain some energy back for the process of coding.
I hope to bring that philosophy of immediacy to my coding process to keep me engaged.

In my running [code change log][log], you can see a number of changes being made today.
The ones labeled `code > press/main` correspond to this application,
and those labeled `code > pain/main` are the commission I'm making progress on -
deployed on [://book.painawayofphilly.com](https://book.painawayofphilly.com).

Since I hope to add many more pages here,
I rigged up a couple changes to keep this app running on my machine all day long.
As soon as ideas occur I can begin to record them;
as soon as they're done I can share online and go back to my earlier process.

For the coders in the audience, I changed the app from the usual Phoenix port of `:4000`, to `:4444`,
so I can keep this app open as I make progress on my other commissions.
I also came across and enabled `:reload_page_on_css_changes` in [Phoenix.LiveReloader];
meaning I can much more easily keep the appearance of these pages in a good and happy mood.

These are small upgrades, and good examples of arrangements to be made early on in a process.
Because I had to keep closing and re-launching apps on my machine,
and changing windows and re-loading pages to see each change I made,
I'd been spending all my energy on minor annoyances during the day,
adding up to the need for a long break.
These upgrades can help me or other coders reach an emotional equilibrium through the day.

- - -

I'm considering a bunch how I can describe my programming process to people;
Some of my approaches seem unusual as I pursue both education and production.
A quick rhyme I made up as I prepared for Aikido practice yesterday
seems to summarize my idea of launching quickly, and upgrading gradually:

1. Make one ugly.
2. Make one quick.
3. Make one useful.
4. Make one slick.

Maybe I had been inspired by Aikido's philosophy of four repetitions,
as we learn each of our motions in class.
I guess if I need more than four chances to accomplish my aim,
I should relax and choose a simpler one.

[NixOS]: https://nix.dev
[HacDC]: https://hacdc.org
[log]: https://labori.us/#narrow/stream/3-code
[code/press]: https://base.bingo/code/press
[Phoenix.LiveReloader]: https://hexdocs.pm/phoenix_live_reload/Phoenix.LiveReloader.html#module-configuration
